The discussion we had got me really thinking about the system that is to be the
solution for 'mitigating the effects of floods in cities using smart devices'.

Introduction
---------------
- the problems is we still rely on ancient ways of monitoring, detection and
reporting incidents of floods in our cities which is by human observation.
The level of water bodies are still been read off of markings and rainfall amount
is still been determined by taking data manually from water collection guages
and sending those reports also manually. Comparisons with previous records provide
insights into potential hazards that might occur. Overall this system is not
reliable because there is lack of enough measurements, quick aggregation and
accurate predictions and itself prone to break down once this natural disaster
events come into play.

- the solution to this is to build and deploy autonomous, highly available,
resilient and reliable sensor networks distributed accross metropolitan and
municipal areas, that collect environmental
data that aid in early warning flood detection or any type of hazard and natural
disaster monitoring. the main focus here is using these technologies to tackle
incidents of flooding in our cities in Ghana as these events are becoming a
menace and something has to done beyond what has already been accomplished.

- the final product will include the following;
 > an autonomous monitoring and analytics system fed by realtime data aggregated
   by the sensor networks, this will provide new insights into the different
   variables that contribute to natural disaster events and their individual
   effects and contribution on such hazardous events.
 > hazard detection and prediction framework powered by computer algorithms based
   on monitoring and analytics system.
 > sms powered early warning system and incidence report system built on the
   detection and prediction system. The early warning system will inform and
   warn inhabitants of geographic regions in which natural disaster events
   may occur while avoiding the blind zones. The incidence response system
   provides a way to connect incidence response teams with victims of natural
   events who might need help in emergency situations. this will help in the
   realtime location and evacuation of victims in danger during natural hazard
   events.
 > An application featuring live flood map of regions in the country, help educate
   people of the dangers of building in disaster prone areas and help people make
   decisions on whether it is safe geographical to build settlements in an area.
 > above all, data aggregated by the smart network of devices overtime is to be
   made opensource to encourage innovation. There lies great potential for
   solutions that we cannot even begin to comprehend, and we do not see this
   potential because the frameworks to build on are not available. Once this
   gigantic amount of data we envision is made public and open to all,
   it will encourage people to contribute solutions to the situations that pose
   real danger to human lives.

Possible Problems with solution
--------------------------------
- The devices are supposed to be small and highly available gathering and
transmiting data at very small intervals. The devices will create a small
smart sensor network in metropolitan or municipal areas. Networks themselves are
very inefficient and prone to lots of problems. What happens in the event of
network downtimes in times where they are needed most?.

- communication has to done over potentially very large geographic areas, this
calls for the use of very reliable communication framework for the smart devices
to data aggregation stations.

- ensuring security of devices so it doesnt become vulnerable to malicious actors
  trying to take over the network to commit crimes. Also measures have to be taken
  to prevent data from been tampered with or lost in transmission.

- on the problem of data been lost in tranmision, measures must be put in place to
secure the communication channel and make it resilient to avoid loosing data in
transmission. The system must be built to recover lost messages 

- there has to be resilience built right into the solution. because this network
of devices have to be able to withstand the effects of the natural disaster events
they are monitoring and reporting on.
