> because of covid, disasters(flood) will most probably become increasingly harder to
  recover from. we need to start taking proactive approaches to dealing with
  issues like this rather than anticipating their occurrence and waiting for it
  to happen before taking any action.

> different kinds of floods occur and each differs in the ways it occurs,
  coming with its challenges and the appropriate way to manage or prevent them.

> rapid urbanisation does not seem to be making any easier to cope. it is
  getting rediculously harder to manage floods becuase our cities are overcrowded
  and building regulations and zoning rules are almost not being paid attention to.

> climate change is fueling things like the changing rainfall patterns making it
  harder to predict weather. The rising levels of the sea is posing increasing damage to
  people living in the coastal regions.

> can we really and truly build cities that are resilient against all this or even
  protect our existing cities and critical infrastructure from these tumultous events.
  if we think we can, how can we even begin to do it with so many complicated
  challenges in the path to any kind progress in planning innovation and implementation.
  Thats what this study seeks to find out.
  > how do we prevent another june 3rd?. can we cope if we allow it to happen again?

--------------
> our costliest natural disaster is floods-- all kinds. destroys lives and properties. become increasing problematic for us over the last decade. both tangible and intangible losses are high.

> what is the approach to managing flood risk and its impact on the major flooding events
    > major laws
    > institutional changes and noteworthy development

> access flood risks in Ghana
    > effects of this factors on floods in Ghana
        > population growth and development
        > climate change

> assess the evolution of flood risk managemant in Ghana and opportunities for optimizing our
approach with smart technologies

writing problem statement
---------------------------
> identify and describe problem in detail. comprehensive view of what is going on
> identify who problem impacts. what the impacts are, where it happens and why and when it needs to be fixed.
> explain what a desired situation would look like.  
