morphology of street networks in urban neigbourhoods in Ghana: a case study accross 2 cities

- how do you even begin to study morphology of any geographical thing

street networks form the substrate of all interactions that happen in physical space.
streets are the veins through which the life blood of cities (people, goods, information) flow, they
facilitate human interaction when planned well and intentional and discourage it down when left to
chance. Street networks entail many components - road networks, walkable networks, bikable networks,
railway lines, bikable street networks. In the sense of this study most street networks are also
walkable by means of their side walks unless they are ( somethig something [refer to geoff ein talk  ).

-- influences and effects on human interaction

(streets networks - public thoroughfare where people may freely assembly, interact or move
about) the goal is to understanding broadly what urban neigbourhoods in Ghana look like and more
broadly understanding how they are formed.

transportation has restructured network science. what the outcomes of these developments
- we can evaluate their work, how has it shaped out neighbourhoods and how people live in space
- how has it shaped development, and is there any correlation between street network type and how
the people interact in their space
- tease out these variables

- research focuses on planned and unplanned neighbourhoods in two urban centers in ghana
- concentrating on areas that were built in the 19th centuries and the most recent ones
1. Accra - [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neighborhoods_of_Accra]
area = 254 km2
pop = 
planned neighbourhoods = osu, airport city, east legon, adenta, victoriaborg
unplanned neighbourhoods = 

2. Kumasi - 
area = 225.7 km2
pop = 3.348 mil
neighbourhoods = adum, ahodwo, suame, bantama, asafo, kwadaso, nhyiaeso, santasi

There exists a talk on examining the structure of structural pattern of urban road networks accross the
ten regions in Ghana. the goal is to adapt that research to study only the road networks but also the
walkable, bikable street networks in Ghana.

New methods of doing spatial data analysis spearheaded by researchers in urban planning and informatics and
computational science involving the 
use of computer programming languages and computational notebooks, which offer greater value and
opportunities for studying spatial variables for both pedagogy, research and practice. 
this methods stress reproducibility and openness in analyzing urban data and predicting city futures.

the tools used in this study are OpenStreetMap, Python, osmnx toolkit, networkX and Jupyter notebook.
most academic papers are written in esoteric language that makes it increasing difficult for undergraduate
students who are interested in the space of network science and urban street network analysis to break into.
the modern tools and opensource data is making it easy to break into the field.

new approaches to spatial data analysis involving the use of open data and computational data science
has provided more opportunities less developed countries to acquire data tease out information
that will be useful in building back better those places.

geoff boeing
---------------
new tools give us the power to evaluate the outcomes of transportation

-- grid networks are more profound in flat areas because they are harder to lay down in areas with rugged
terrains. 

questions
---------
1.Which sources and tools help in securing replicable and accurate data on street networks in Ghana?
2.Which relevant tools and methods can be used to accumulate data, model, and visualize data to be able to tease out the metrics that help understand urban street networks.
3.How relevant is the computational network science approach to understanding the form and structure of street networks in urban neighborhoods?
4.How can cities effectively and sustainably operationalize the open and reproducible computational science approach to studying urban street networks and incorporate it into transportation planning and urban planning to achieve desired results?

objectives
----------
1.To identify reproducible and open ways for securing and analyzing street network data.
2.To explore modern computational data science approaches and freely available spatial data and tools to create replicable and verifiable analyses and comparisons of street network structure and form across city neighborhoods in Ghana.
3.To assess the importance of using open-data, open-science with the benefits of network science in the study of street networks on the local scale.
4.To provide a comprehensive addition to the current toolset and resources needed for effective studying of street networks and provide a minimal framework that can built upon to increase scope of studies like this done in Ghana.


discussions
-----------
1.the need to adopt these tools for schools and policy makers, break reliance on primitive and old tech and take advantage of all the goodness of modern tech
2. take a more proactive approach to learning and teaching on the subject
